the humble time troll often known as the
rage against the clock or the race and
truth it's bike racing in its purest
form since you ride as fast as you can
from point A to point B doesn't get much
more sinful or indeed much more painful
nailing a Time Trial can be a ridiculous
and satisfying experience though so
we're told so here are a few really good
ways to train for this solo sufferfest
your ability to cycle up hills is
governed almost exclusively by your
power-to-weight ratio but when time
traveling on flat terrain it's far more
about your power to drag coefficient
ratio drag coefficient or CDA is
basically a measure how aerodynamic you
are
but regardless raising your functional
threshold power should still be goal
number one if you want to improve your
time trailing by training and that
basically means doing loads of sweet
squat and threshold intervals
patiently at I enjoy something that's
really hard to get right even for
experienced cyclists those of us we've
been lucky enough to have access to a
power meter we've often found we've
actually been doing in time trials
starting out too hard and gradually
fading throughout we do it that way it
will feel very hard from start to finish
but actually you can go faster by
pasting things better
yeah are some pros I've actually started
experimenting with a negative split
strategy which is basically where they
go at a higher power for the second half
of the event compared to the first half
and it's definitely worth experimenting
with for you too so maybe have a play
around in training see if it works yeah
if you haven't got a power meter though
then think of it like this if your time
trial is over 10 minutes in duration the
first third should feel reasonably
comfortable the middle part just starts
to feel like you're really working hard
then the last third you feel like you're
only just about going to be able to
sustain the pace through to the finish
now this next point is a little bit of a
cage to do as we say and not as we do
because we thoroughly recommend you
spend a lot of time training on your TT
by lots of riders fine they can't put
out the same power in that extreme
position they can their road bike you
can reduce that discrepancy by spending
more time training on your TT bike and
whilst you're at it why not experiment
of another couple of things firstly if
you chin forward and head down out of
the wind and secondly shrugging up your
shoulders close to your head
both should reduce your overall drag if
you do them in training be much easier
to do when you're racing unsurprisingly
one of the best ways to train for time
trailing is to compete in time trials
now might sound obvious but it's a great
way practicing and practice makes
perfect and many local cycling clubs
around the world will have weekly
evening events and they're a great
opportunity to test things out it could
be dialing in your warmup it could be
testing your equipment your pace on
strategy or just the amazing training
effect from pinning a number on your
back and having that added impetus
chris boardman a time trailing pioneer
from the 1990s used to do some very
short very intensive intervals his time
trial position trying to keep its upper
body as still as he possibly could the
idea behind it was if he was comfortable
at such a high power we'd be finding a
piece of cake go at the lower sustained
power on race day itself in a single
session you can do anything up to 20
intervals of 10 seconds in duration
how on earth is stretchy going to
improve your time charlie I hear you ask
how on earth is stretching and improve
my time trailing Dan well the position
that your Doc's trying to get really
aerodynamic on a time trial but it's
particularly arduous your body and your
muscles especially your hamstrings
glutes and lower back trying to get over
into that touched position yeah so
regular stretching could help you adopt
your current position much more
comfortably or it can also help you get
lower and therefore more aerodynamic and
faster in fact if you want to see a
specific video about stretching for
cycling why not click up there and if
you're looking to try and improve your
functional threshold power we've got a
video for that which you can find just
down here
and you need to subscribe to GCN of
course because that will also make you a
faster time trailer and be like the
video give it a thumbs up just down
below can we say that it'll make them
faster by subscribing well the thing
that's obvious quickly I think what
subscribe yeah